The mission statement of education and public engagement for SDSS-IV
is to make the engineering and scientific results of all SDSS surveys
accessible to the public through formal education, citizen science,
news, and social media. SDSS-IV will continue and expand upon the
activities in these areas of its predecessors.  SDSS public outreach
activities are based on real astronomical data accessed through the
same databases as used by professionals.  These activities expand the
user base of SDSS data and thus its scientific reach, both through
training and directly through investigations made possible with these
scientific tools.

These activities include the public distribution of data, the
development of inquiry-led education material suitable for middle
school and above, the distribution of SDSS plates to educational
venues to support engagement with SDSS data in the classroom,
development of new citizen science projects through collaboration with
the Zooniverse\footnote{\url{http://www.zooniverse.org}} (building on
the success of Galaxy Zoo\footnote{\url{http://www.galaxyzoo.org}}),
regular blogging\footnote{\url{http://blog.sdss.org}} and increased
social media engagement, including multi-lingual
activity.\footnote{\url{http://www.facebook.com/SDSSurveys}; \\
\url{https://twitter.com/sdssurveys}} These activities are coordinated 
by co-Chairs of a Committee on Education and Public Engagement, and
are partly funded by the SDSS-IV project and partly the result of
voluntary activities by collaboration members.

The SkyServer contains material, tutorials, and activities designed
for outreach and education.  Based on SkyServer tools, SDSS
Voyages\footnote{\url{http://voyages.sdss.org}} is created for
educators for designing curricula around astronomical data from the
SDSS. The activities on the site range from very short to extended
projects, aimed at middle and high school students. We have begun a
program associated with the SDSS Voyages activities of distributing to
teachers used plug plates, which so far has reached 32 schools.

