%!TEX root = main.tex

Happens-before is a powerful technique that can be used to effectively
detect for races.  However, the detection power of HB is limited only
until the first race is identified.  We characterize when an HB-race,
beyond just the first race, can be scheduled in an alternate
reordering, by introducing a new partial order called SHB which
identifies all HB-schedulable races. SHB can be implemented in a
vector clock algorithm, which is only slightly different from HB
vector clock algorithm, and thus, existing race detection tools can
easily incorporate it to enhance their race detection capability.
Also, standard epoch like optimizations can be employed to improve the
performance of the basic algorithm.  We show, through extensive
experimental evaluation, the value our approach adds to sound race
detection tools.

In the future, we would like to extend the work for weaker partial
orders like CP~\cite{cp2012} and WCP~\cite{wcp2017}. Incorporating
control flow and data flow information in the traces is another
promising direction.

%Our characterization of read-write races is not exact. It would be
%interesting, from a mathematical standpoint, to obtain such a
%characterization which will need to overcome the challenges posed by
%the examples in Appendix~\ref{app:shb-examples}. Other directions for
%future work include a similar analysis for weaker partial orders like
%CP~\cite{cp2012} and WCP~\cite{wcp2017}. Incorporating control flow
%and data flow information in the traces can be a promising direction.
